

--- PAGE 1 ---
Project Overview: Regional Tasting 
Shuttle Platform 
Hello! We are looking for a Lead Engineer to partner with us on an upcoming web application 
build. We have already completed the initial architecture research and technical planning. 
Before we officially kick off, we want you to review the scope, constraints, and chosen stack to 
ensure you are aligned with our approach and comfortable taking on this project as a contractor. 
The Goal: We are building a lightweight, highly efficient tracking and logistics platform for a 
regional tasting shuttle service. We are optimizing for a small footprint, rapid delivery, and 
extremely low maintenance. The principal engineer has already locked in the core tech stack 
(Supabase, React+Vite, MapLibre), which is detailed in the brief below. 
Your Role: Review the architecture and constraints. If you agree to take this on, your first phase 
of work will involve tackling a specific list of "research spikes" (detailed at the end of this 
document) to pressure-test a few key technical decisions before we transition into full production 
mode. 
Architecture & Stack Brief 
Audience: Lead Engineer (build research + technical planning) 
From: Surya · Agentic Architects 
Status: Pre-build. This brief is your starting point to research build specifics and pressure-test 
choices. 
1. Mission in one paragraph 
Build a single web app, hosted in the cloud, that does three things: (1) lets anonymous riders 
scan a QR code, enter a daily access code, and watch the shuttle move on a live map with 
next-stop ETAs; (2) gives drivers a dead-simple mounted-tablet screen to log stop arrivals and 
passenger on/off counts; (3) gives the owner an admin dashboard to generate the daily code, 
watch buses live, assign buses to routes, and read a handful of business-health metrics. We are 
launching with two buses on one shared primary loop, expanding to ~4 buses and a secondary 
route in 6–12 months. 
 
 


--- PAGE 2 ---
2. Hard constraints (read these first) 
Constraint 
Detail 
Implication 
Strict Scope 
Fixed-scope build. 
Our discipline is key. Every 
avoidable component adds 
overhead. Minimize moving 
parts. 
Timeline 
Client operations launch 
this weekend (May 23/24), 
but buses will run manual 
drop-offs for 1–2 months. 
The tracking app is 
mandatory in 4–6 weeks. 
The real deadline is 
~mid-June to mid-July. The 
timeline is comfortable. 
No Accounts for Riders 
Access is a daily rotating 
code, valid ~10am–6pm. No 
auth, no booking 
integration, no payments. 
Removes the entire 
identity/booking layer. 
Riders are strictly 
anonymous. 
 
3. Guiding principles (non-negotiable design stance) 
●​ Minimum components: Fewer moving parts = faster delivery, lower hosting complexity, 
less to maintain. We collapse "backend + realtime + auth + DB" into one managed 
service. 
●​ Off-the-shelf, open-source, boring: Prefer mature OSS we configure over anything we 
hand-build. If a boring tool ships faster, it wins. 
●​ Web-only: No native iOS/Android. One codebase, three role-based views. No app-store 
review (a delivery killer), no dual-platform overhead.​
 
●​ Flow over stock: The data model records independent per-stop events 
(boarded/alighted), never a stateful running occupancy. One missed tap breaks one row, 
not the whole day. (See §6.) 
●​ Config, not code: Routes/stops/buses are data with foreign keys. Scaling from 2→4 
buses or adding the secondary route is admin data entry, never a code change or 
redeployment. 


--- PAGE 3 ---
4. The stack 
Layer 
Choice 
Role 
Why this 
Backend-as-a-serv
ice 
Supabase (OSS, 
self-hostable) 
Postgres DB + 
Realtime 
(WebSockets) + 
Auth + Row-Level 
Security 
Collapses ~4 
components into 
one managed box. 
Almost no bespoke 
server. RLS 
enforces roles at 
the DB. Near-zero 
ops. 
Frontend 
React + Vite 
Single PWA, 
role-based routes (/, 
/driver, /admin) 
One codebase; 
installable to home 
screen; no app 
store needed. 
Map renderer 
MapLibre GL JS 
Draws the 
interactive map 
Free, no per-load 
billing, bundled via 
npm. 
Map tiles 
OpenFreeMap 
(default) or 
self-hosted 
Protomaps .pmtiles 
Supplies the actual 
map imagery/vector 
data 
⚠️ Do NOT use 
raw 
tile.openstreetmap
.org its usage policy 
forbids production 
embedding. This is 
the #1 mistake to 
avoid. 
Frontend hosting 
Vercel or Netlify 
Serves the PWA 
Git-push deploys, 
near-zero 
maintenance. 
Driver tablet 
runtime 
Fully Kiosk Browser 
(Android) 
Locks the tablet to 
/driver, holds screen 
awake 
Turns a cheap 
Android tablet into a 
reliable mounted 


--- PAGE 4 ---
Layer 
Choice 
Role 
Why this 
appliance. 
 
5. System architecture & data flow 
​
 
The most important transport decision: position vs. records 
Industry pattern for driver-location dashboards: split the two data types. 
1.​ Live bus position (every 3–5s): Send via Supabase Realtime Broadcast — ephemeral, 
no database write per ping. Riders/admin subscribe to a per-route channel and see 
movement live. We do not persist every GPS ping (avoids write amplification, keeps the 
DB tiny, dodges Postgres-Changes WAL latency under load). 
2.​ Stop events (arrivals, on/off counts): These are facts → write to the stop_logs Postgres 
table. Admin dashboard listens via Postgres Changes for live updates. These are 
low-frequency (a handful per loop), so latency and volume are non-issues.​
 


--- PAGE 5 ---
3.​ Optional: Persist a last-known-position snapshot per bus (one upsert row) so a 
freshly-opened map isn't blank before the next broadcast. Decide based on "do you need 
history?" answer. 
6. Data model (the entire core) 
routes (​
  id, name, active                    -- "Primary loop", "Secondary loop"​
)​
​
stops (​
  id, route_id FK, name, sequence,    -- ordered stop list per route​
  scheduled_time, lat, lng            -- scheduled_time drives the on-time KPI + ETA​
)​
​
buses (​
  id, label, route_id FK, status      -- admin flips route_id (config-not-code);​
                                      -- status = in_service | off_service | offline​
)​
​
daily_codes (​
  id, code, valid_date, route_id FK   -- one row/day ​
)​
​
drivers (​
  id, name, pin_or_auth_ref, active   -- write-only role via RLS​
)​
​
stop_logs (                            -- ⭐ APPEND-ONLY. The single source of truth.​
  id, bus_id FK, stop_id FK, route_id FK,​
  service_date,                        -- date column → trivial daily GROUP BY, no TZ math​
  arrived_at,                          -- timestamp → on-time KPI + time-of-day buckets​
  boarded   DEFAULT 0,                 -- FLOW event, not a running total​
  alighted  DEFAULT 0​
)​
 
Why flow-over-stock matters operationally: The driver taps "Arrived" at every stop (creating 
the row, defaulting counts to 0), increments on/off only based on real movement, then taps 


--- PAGE 6 ---
"Confirm" to lock the row. Result: "visited, nobody moved" becomes a trustworthy data point. 
Every dashboard metric is a single GROUP BY over this one table. Live occupancy ("fullness") 
is the only stock-style number and is treated as an approximate gauge that resets each loop, 
never a reported metric. 
7. Auth & roles (Row-Level Security does the heavy lifting) 
Role 
Auth 
Can do 
RLS posture 
Rider 
None (anonymous). 
Daily-code check is 
an RPC. 
Read in-service bus 
positions + stops + 
offers for a route 
(after code 
validation). 
No table access 
beyond what the 
public RPC/views 
expose. 
Driver 
Lightweight login 
(name + 4-digit 
PIN). 
Insert/update their 
own bus's 
stop_logs; set their 
bus status; emit 
position. 
Write-only to own 
bus; cannot read 
admin data or other 
buses' detail. 
Owner/Admin 
Email + password 
(single account). 
Everything: 
generate codes, 
CRUD routes/stops, 
assign drivers, read 
logs/KPIs. 
Full access. 
 
 
8. Maps, tiles & ETA 
●​ Renderer: MapLibre GL JS, npm-bundled (no third-party script tracking loads). 
●​ Tiles: See §4. Default to OpenFreeMap; evaluate self-hosted Protomaps for lowest 
long-term risk/control. 
●​ ETA: For V1, compute ETA from the schedule (next stop scheduled_time − now, adjusted 
by observed delay) rather than standing up a routing engine. A full routing/road-network 
ETA is out of scope. 


--- PAGE 7 ---
9. The driver-tablet reality (the one physical gotcha) 
Browser geolocation (watchPosition) is reliable only while the page is foregrounded and the 
screen is on. We neutralize this by making tablet provisioning a core deliverable: 
●​ Screen timeout: Never. Tablet is mounted + charging in the bus. 
●​ Hold the Screen Wake Lock API while /driver is open. 
●​ Lock the device into Fully Kiosk Browser, pinned to the /driver URL. 
●​ We ship the tablet pre-configured. (An un-provisioned tablet that sleeps = a bus that 
vanishes from the map = a support call that's our fault). 
10. Offline strategy (deliberately minimal for V1) 
●​ V1 (Primary route, has coverage): Light buffer-and-flush. Queue GPS pings and stop 
taps in IndexedDB when the signal blips, replay in order to reconnect so the app never 
crashes or loses a count. Cheap insurance. 
●​ Phase 3 (Secondary route, real dead zones): Robust offline sync. This is a separate 
future phase. Do not build it now. 
11. Scalability story 
Everything hangs off route_id. Adding buses or the secondary route is just rows in 
buses/routes/stops, surfaced through the admin UI as dropdowns and forms. No schema 
change, no redeploy. Build it right once on day one. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 8 ---
12. Research spikes for you (the actionable list) 
Please come back with findings + a recommendation on each: 
1.​ Tile provider decision: OpenFreeMap vs self-hosted Protomaps .pmtiles vs MapTiler. 
Deliverable: a recommendation + a working MapLibre map of the target region on the 
chosen tiles. 
2.​ Supabase Realtime Broadcast for position: Confirm the Broadcast (ephemeral) + 
Postgres-Changes (stop_logs) split holds for 2–4 buses pinging every 3–5s, including 
reconnection behavior. Deliverable: a tiny spike — one tab emits a moving marker, 
another subscribes. 
3.​ Driver auth pattern: Decide the cleanest mapping for "name + 4-digit PIN" within 
Supabase Auth (e.g., per-driver email alias + PIN-as-password, or anonymous sign-in + 
custom claim). Deliverable: recommended pattern + RLS policy sketch. 
4.​ Wake Lock + Fully Kiosk reliability: Test on a specific budget Android tablet across an 
8-hour shift (screen never sleeps, GPS keeps emitting). Deliverable: go/no-go + the exact 
kiosk config recipe we'll ship. 
5.​ IndexedDB buffer-flush: For GPS + tap queue with in-order replay. Deliverable: the 
queue/replay approach. 
6.​ Schedule-based ETA math: Run against a sample loop timetable. Deliverable: the 
formula + edge cases (bus ahead of schedule, skipped stop). 
7.​ PWA install + permissions UX: Geolocation prompt on the driver tablet; "add to home 
screen" for riders. Deliverable: the permission/onboarding flow. 
14. Open technical risks 
●​ Tile licensing/cost drift if we pick a SaaS provider and volume grows: Protomaps self-host 
de-risks this. 
●​ Web geolocation on the tablet is the highest-risk dependency; spike #4 must clear before 
we commit to the architecture. 
●​ Driver compliance with the mandatory "Arrived" tap is an operational risk that directly 
degrades data quality; the UI must make it the path of least resistance. 
15. Suggested shape 
●​ Monorepo, single React+Vite PWA, route-based code-splitting per role. 
●​ Supabase project with migrations in-repo (supabase/migrations), RLS policies 
version-controlled. 
●​ Two environments: dev → prod. Vercel/Netlify preview deploys per PR. 
 
